docs/config-contract.md, before:

# Configuration Contract (v1)

## Runtime Command Contract
Default container startup resolves to:

```bash
node dist/index.js gateway --bind ${OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_BIND:-lan} --port ${OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_PORT:-18789} --allow-unconfigured
```

## Required Environment Variables
| Variable | Required | Default | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_TOKEN` | Yes | none | Required for gateway/UI authentication. |

## Core Environment Variables
| Variable | Required | Default | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_PORT` | No | `18789` | Internal port gateway listens on. |
| `OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_BIND` | No | `lan` | Gateway bind mode. Accepted values include `lan`, `loopback`, `tailnet`, `auto`, and `custom`. |
| `BUN_INSTALL` | No | `/home/node/.bun` | Bun install/cache root used by baked Bun runtime. |
| `TZ` | No | unset | Optional timezone override (template sets a concrete default). |
| `NVIDIA_VISIBLE_DEVICES` | No | `all` | GPU visibility selection when GPU is enabled. |
| `NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES` | No | `compute,utility` | NVIDIA driver capabilities exposed to the container. |

## Profile-Specific Runtime Defaults
### Core (default image)
- Baked tooling on PATH: `bun`, `ffmpeg`, `ffprobe`, `git`, `jq`, `rg`, `tmux`, `python3`, `uv`, `gh`, `qmd`
- Gateway runtime remains Node-based

### Power (optional image)
- Adds Linuxbrew/Homebrew at `/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew`
- Sets `HOMEBREW_PREFIX=/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew`
- Sets `HOMEBREW_NO_AUTO_UPDATE=1`
- Sets `HOMEBREW_NO_INSTALL_CLEANUP=1`
- Sets `PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH=/home/node/.cache/ms-playwright`

## Provider API Keys (Optional)
- `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`
- `OPENAI_API_KEY`
- `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`
- `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- `GROQ_API_KEY`
- `XAI_API_KEY`
- `ZAI_API_KEY`

All provider keys default to empty and are never hardcoded in template values.

## Optional Permission Variables
| Variable | Required | Default | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `PUID` | No | unset | Optional UID remap when container starts as root for ownership repair. |
| `PGID` | No | unset | Optional GID remap when container starts as root for ownership repair. |
| `OPENCLAW_CHOWN` | No | `auto` | `auto` repairs ownership only when write checks fail, `true` always repairs, `false` disables repair. |
| `OPENCLAW_TRUSTED_PROXIES` | No | `127.0.0.1,::1` (template default) | Comma-separated list or JSON array written to `gateway.trustedProxies` in `openclaw.json` at startup. |

## Volume Contract

### Required Mounts
| Host Path | Container Path | Mode | Purpose |
|---|---|---|---|
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw` | `/home/node/.openclaw` | `rw` | Config, auth, agent state |
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/workspace` | `/home/node/.openclaw/workspace` | `rw` | Workspace files and memory |

### Optional Mounts (Advanced)
| Host Path (example) | Container Path | Mode | Purpose |
|---|---|---|---|
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/projects` | `/projects` | `rw` | External code/project workspace |
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/qmd-cache` | `/home/node/.cache/qmd` | `rw` | QMD/model cache persistence |
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/bun` | `/home/node/.bun` | `rw` | Bun persistence for advanced workflows |
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/homebrew` | `/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew` | `rw` | Homebrew persistence for advanced workflows |
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/playwright-cache` | `/home/node/.cache/ms-playwright` | `rw` | Playwright/Chromium browser cache persistence (`power` profile) |

## Network Contract
- Default mode: `bridge`.
- Required mapped port: `18789/tcp`.
- Optional mapped port: `18790/tcp` only when bridge features are enabled.
- Remote access over Tailscale is handled by the Unraid host, not this container.
- When using Unraid native container Tailscale integration, the hook runs as root and then starts the original entrypoint.

## Removed Legacy Surface (Breaking)
- `TAILSCALE_AUTHKEY` environment variable.
- `/var/lib/tailscale` mount.
- In-container `tailscaled` startup workflow.
- Runtime package install/bootstrap scripts.
- `--cap-add=NET_ADMIN` and legacy `--runtime=nvidia` defaults.

## Upgrade Notes
When migrating from legacy templates:
- Move to `/home/node/.openclaw` container path contract.
- Remove legacy Tailscale env/mount entries.
- Ensure `OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_TOKEN` is explicitly set in the template.
- Use migration tooling in `scripts/migrate-legacy-openclaw.sh` before switching templates.

Commit message:

fix(unraid): auto-configure control UI origins for one-shot startup

docs/config-contract.md, after:

# Configuration Contract (v1)

## Runtime Command Contract
Default container startup resolves to:

```bash
node dist/index.js gateway --bind ${OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_BIND:-lan} --port ${OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_PORT:-18789} --allow-unconfigured
```

When starting the gateway, the entrypoint may create/update `/home/node/.openclaw/openclaw.json` to apply runtime config patches for:
- `gateway.trustedProxies` (from `OPENCLAW_TRUSTED_PROXIES`)
- `gateway.controlUi.allowedOrigins`
- `gateway.controlUi.dangerouslyAllowHostHeaderOriginFallback`

## Required Environment Variables
| Variable | Required | Default | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_TOKEN` | Yes | none | Required for gateway/UI authentication. |

## Core Environment Variables
| Variable | Required | Default | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_PORT` | No | `18789` | Internal port gateway listens on. |
| `OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_BIND` | No | `lan` | Gateway bind mode. Accepted values include `lan`, `loopback`, `tailnet`, `auto`, and `custom`. Non-loopback modes require a Control UI origin policy in OpenClaw `v2026.2.23+`; this image auto-handles first start by default. |
| `BUN_INSTALL` | No | `/home/node/.bun` | Bun install/cache root used by baked Bun runtime. |
| `TZ` | No | unset | Optional timezone override (template sets a concrete default). |
| `NVIDIA_VISIBLE_DEVICES` | No | `all` | GPU visibility selection when GPU is enabled. |
| `NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES` | No | `compute,utility` | NVIDIA driver capabilities exposed to the container. |
| `OPENCLAW_CONTROL_UI_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` | No | template default: `http://[IP]:[PORT:18800]` | Comma-separated list or JSON array of browser origins written to `gateway.controlUi.allowedOrigins` in `openclaw.json`. Invalid/path-containing values are ignored with a warning. |
| `OPENCLAW_CONTROL_UI_DANGEROUSLY_ALLOW_HOST_HEADER_ORIGIN_FALLBACK` | No | `auto` | `auto`, `true`, or `false`. Controls `gateway.controlUi.dangerouslyAllowHostHeaderOriginFallback`. In `auto`, the image enables fallback only when non-loopback startup would otherwise fail and no valid origins are configured. |

## Profile-Specific Runtime Defaults
### Core (default image)
- Baked tooling on PATH: `bun`, `ffmpeg`, `ffprobe`, `git`, `jq`, `rg`, `tmux`, `python3`, `uv`, `gh`, `qmd`
- Gateway runtime remains Node-based

### Power (optional image)
- Adds Linuxbrew/Homebrew at `/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew`
- Sets `HOMEBREW_PREFIX=/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew`
- Sets `HOMEBREW_NO_AUTO_UPDATE=1`
- Sets `HOMEBREW_NO_INSTALL_CLEANUP=1`
- Sets `PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH=/home/node/.cache/ms-playwright`

## Provider API Keys (Optional)
- `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`
- `OPENAI_API_KEY`
- `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`
- `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- `GROQ_API_KEY`
- `XAI_API_KEY`
- `ZAI_API_KEY`

All provider keys default to empty and are never hardcoded in template values.

## Optional Permission Variables
| Variable | Required | Default | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `PUID` | No | unset | Optional UID remap when container starts as root for ownership repair. |
| `PGID` | No | unset | Optional GID remap when container starts as root for ownership repair. |
| `OPENCLAW_CHOWN` | No | `auto` | `auto` repairs ownership only when write checks fail, `true` always repairs, `false` disables repair. |
| `OPENCLAW_TRUSTED_PROXIES` | No | `127.0.0.1,::1` (template default) | Comma-separated list or JSON array written to `gateway.trustedProxies` in `openclaw.json` at startup. |

## Volume Contract

### Required Mounts
| Host Path | Container Path | Mode | Purpose |
|---|---|---|---|
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw` | `/home/node/.openclaw` | `rw` | Config, auth, agent state |
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/workspace` | `/home/node/.openclaw/workspace` | `rw` | Workspace files and memory |

### Optional Mounts (Advanced)
| Host Path (example) | Container Path | Mode | Purpose |
|---|---|---|---|
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/projects` | `/projects` | `rw` | External code/project workspace |
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/qmd-cache` | `/home/node/.cache/qmd` | `rw` | QMD/model cache persistence |
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/bun` | `/home/node/.bun` | `rw` | Bun persistence for advanced workflows |
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/homebrew` | `/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew` | `rw` | Homebrew persistence for advanced workflows |
| `/mnt/user/appdata/openclaw/playwright-cache` | `/home/node/.cache/ms-playwright` | `rw` | Playwright/Chromium browser cache persistence (`power` profile) |

## Network Contract
- Default mode: `bridge`.
- Required mapped port: `18789/tcp`.
- Optional mapped port: `18790/tcp` only when bridge features are enabled.
- Remote access over Tailscale is handled by the Unraid host, not this container.
- When using Unraid native container Tailscale integration, the hook runs as root and then starts the original entrypoint.

## Control UI Origin Policy (OpenClaw `v2026.2.23+`)
- Fresh Unraid installs default to `OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_BIND=lan`.
- The templates auto-seed `OPENCLAW_CONTROL_UI_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=http://[IP]:[PORT:18800]`.
- If the template origin value is unresolved or hostname-based access is used, the image can auto-enable OpenClaw Host-header origin fallback (`OPENCLAW_CONTROL_UI_DANGEROUSLY_ALLOW_HOST_HEADER_ORIGIN_FALLBACK=auto`) so first start still succeeds.
- Recommended hardening:
  - Set `OPENCLAW_CONTROL_UI_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` to all expected access origins (IP, hostname, proxy FQDN).
  - Set `OPENCLAW_CONTROL_UI_DANGEROUSLY_ALLOW_HOST_HEADER_ORIGIN_FALLBACK=false`.

## Removed Legacy Surface (Breaking)
- `TAILSCALE_AUTHKEY` environment variable.
- `/var/lib/tailscale` mount.
- In-container `tailscaled` startup workflow.
- Runtime package install/bootstrap scripts.
- `--cap-add=NET_ADMIN` and legacy `--runtime=nvidia` defaults.

## Upgrade Notes
When migrating from legacy templates:
- Move to `/home/node/.openclaw` container path contract.
- Remove legacy Tailscale env/mount entries.
- Ensure `OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_TOKEN` is explicitly set in the template.
- Use migration tooling in `scripts/migrate-legacy-openclaw.sh` before switching templates.
